Anyways, we're here to talk about
Apple Open Directory and
specific authentication.
Based on your support last year
of the overflow room at San Jose,
they decided to give me
two sessions this year.
So you can be bored this afternoon,
and I look forward to
seeing all of you tomorrow,
tomorrow morning's
Open Directory session.
As the announcer said,
I'm David O'Rourke.
I'm the engineering
manager for Open Directory,
and today we're going to
talk about authentication.
What I'd like to do is review
the current Jaguar feature set,
because I know everyone here,
some of the people might be new.
We're going to cover new
features for authentication.
They break down into three basic areas.
We have local authentication,
open directory password server and
what we're doing in that space,
and Apple single sign-on slash
Kerberoes implementation.
We'll do a summary, we'll do a wrap-up,
and hopefully we'll have some time
for Q&A if I don't go too long.
So, Jaguar authentication,
the product that most of you probably
had installed on your PowerBooks before
we gave you the developer CD.
Jaguar currently supports Crypt.
All of us are familiar with Crypt.
It supports the
Open Directory Password Server.
It currently supports Kerbero,
it supports LDAP bind,
and it supports any other method
of authentication if you implement
an Open Directory plug-in.
In Jaguar, we introduced the new notion
of a user attribute called
the authentication authority,
which is a hint to Jaguar as to
how to best authenticate this user.
You're going to see later in this
presentation and throughout the
Panther process that we're going to
start leveraging the authentication
authority much more into the future.
So what authentication authority
values do we have right now?
We have basic, and this is an attribute
stored in a user record,
and if its value is basic,
it basically says the
user is using crypt.
If this attribute is absent,
we also assume the user is using crypt,
because any existing user record
that was crypt-based didn't have
an authentication authority.
So really the basic authentication
authority is there for
intellectual completeness.
It doesn't serve any purpose
other than to clearly indicate
this user is crypt-based.
The new attribute that we
introduced in Jaguar was the
Apple Password Server attribute.
This consisted of a keyword,
Apple Password Server,
which is up on the screen.
It's followed by an ID,
a public key of the Password Server,
and the network address of
the Password Server that you
would contact to authenticate.
This is how, in LDAP or NetInfo,
we indicate that a user's authentication
request should be redirected to
talk to the Apple Password Server.
So for Jaguar changes, we had a lot of
infrastructure work to do.
We had to get login window
onto directory services.
We had to get secure framework
We had to pamify the entire Core OS.
Most of the FreeBSD code we adopted
wasn't adopting an API abstraction.
And because of that,
we couldn't replace the crypt password,
and if we did, these apps would break.
And we had the directory service APIs,
of course, that already supported this.
So the major accomplishment for
Jaguar last year was that we managed
to get most of Apple software to
not care how passwords are handled.
In Puma or 10.1, that was not the case.
If you remove the crypt password,
there was a lot of software that broke.
So the major accomplishment
for Jaguar was we got all of
Apple software cleaned up not to care.
The Open Directory Password Server was
also introduced with Jaguar,
with Jaguar Server.
It's a password server.
It's based on the open standard of Sassl,
and it provides comprehensive
network authentication support for
a wide variety of network protocols.
How many people have heard of APOP?
How many people have heard of CRAM MD5?
NT Land Manager, SHA-1,
shall I keep going?
The Password Server supports all of
these methods so that you can have a
single password supported across multiple
network authentication protocols.
For those of you who have
implemented authentication systems,
this is no easy trick.
So the authentication methods
that we support with Password
Server are MD5 Digest,
CRAM MD5, NTN Land Manager, APOP,
WebDAV Digest, Two-Way Random,
and Apple's own Diffie-Hellman Exchange,
which is used by AFP.
I've associated the most common protocols
that use each of these auth methods,
but any protocol could, in theory,
use any auth method, but, you know,
and typically these are what
they're associated with.
All of these methods are secure to
some degree if you believe network
challenge response protocols are secure,
so none of these disclose the
clear text password on the wire.
But all of them are necessary to support
various network service protocols.
So, last year I had a slide which I heard
after the feedback was quite popular.
It just runs you a quick
diagram through how a Password
Server authentication works for logging
on to a mythical network service,
and I'd like to drop in a network.
So, we have the Mac OS X client.
It will be talking to the Jaguar server,
AFP, FTP, IMAP, SMB.
It's going to look the user
record up in a directory server,
and it's going to verify
that with a Password Server.
So, the first thing that happens
is a Mac OS X client contacts
the Jaguar server and says,
hey, I want AFP service.
I'd like to do two-way
random number exchange,
and my name is George.
The Jaguar server takes George,
looks them up in the directory server,
and what it retrieves from the
directory server is George's name,
George's UID,
and the very most important attribute
is it retrieves the auth authority.
The auth authority indicates that
George is Password Server based,
and this is the network address
that this user should go to.
So, that's the first thing that happens.
So, the Jaguar server contacts the
Password Server and conducts a
network-based authentication,
choosing an appropriate
authentication method.
The Password Server responds
with success,
even if the password's wrong.
No, I'm just kidding.
And the Jaguar server says
you can log on or says no.
So this is very similar to Kerbero
authentication for those of you,
but it's password server-based
and there's no credential
management going on here.
But the password server is the
repository of the user's passwords.
There are several advantages
to the password server.
It maintains a single password
for all network protocols.
Part of Apple's strategy,
if you haven't heard this,
is we take open source software
and make it easy to deploy.
Well, a lot of network administrators
don't want to set up separate
password databases for all their
different networking protocols.
They want to create a user once,
they want to assign a password once,
and they want to know that that user can
log on to every single network protocol
they might turn on today or tomorrow.
So the password server's
role is to maintain a single
password for all passwords.
possible networking
protocols that we support.
That means we need to allow
support for secure legacy
network authentication protocols.
If you don't have this requirement,
you don't have to have a password server.
If you do have this requirement,
you have to have a password server.
Most people have this requirement.
It also supports long
passwords up to 511 bytes.
I picked bytes and not characters
because UTF-8 isn't necessarily
a single byte per character.
For arbitrary strings,
it may be as little as 200 characters,
the user types, but it is 512 bytes.
It enforces password
policies for all accounts.
It's not subject to hacking
by download of hashes.
How many people are familiar with offline
dictionary attacks in the audience?
You can't do that with
the password server.
Not even the password server
administrator can capture the hashes
out of the password server database.
There's no known attack that I know
of on the password server that can
get the hashes into a user's hand
where they can work them offline.
It supports standard security
techniques such as slowing
down on successive failures,
policy to shut down the account
after three or four failed attempts,
all of those standard things.
And more importantly,
it also has its own RSA public key,
private key pair so that the
password server can't be spoofed.
In the design,
if you could set up the password
server and take over an IP address
and just have a password server
that said yes every single time,
the client would trust what
the password server would say
and allow that user to log on.
Well, the client, when it's contacted,
when it's contacting the password server,
actually challenges the password server
to prove it knows the private key.
So you cannot spoof being a password
server on the network and we're
going to leverage this more for
some of the new features in Jaguar.
Jaguar Kerbero support.
Thanks to our MIT brethren,
Jaguar came with full Kerbero support.
MIT provided us with a very
robust Mac OS X Kerberos client.
And Apple provided
configuration documentation,
a lot more than what's listed here,
but that's one example document
that Apple provided of how to
configure Kerberos in Jaguar.
Apple Kerberized many servers and
clients in the Jaguar time frame.
There's the list.
For Jaguar client, we Kerberized AFP,
we Kerberized the
Mac OS X Mail application,
we Kerberized login window,
and we Kerberized Telnet.
In Jaguar Server, we Kerberized AFP,
we Kerberized IMAP, SMTP,
I think we Kerberized POP.
Did we Kerberize POP, Marshall?
I don't know.
Okay.
And we Kerberized the FTP server
that we shipped with Jaguar Server.
So with Jaguar, we did a lot of things.
We expanded the set of
choices for authentication.
We abstracted the entire operating system
to not care how passwords are managed.
And Panther is going to introduce
even more change now that we
have these building blocks.
So what I'd like to get into
is what you're all here for,
which is to talk about what we're
doing in authentication for Panther.
And first,
we're going to talk about what changes
we've made to local authentication.
And what I mean by local authentication
are the user records that are kept
locally on your PowerBook that are
created by the setup assistant or
by the local system pref thing,
not user records created
by the server tools.
The first thing that most of you should
stand up and applaud is Crypt is dead.
There is no readable Crypt password.
The default local authentication
is now stored in a shadow file
for all local user accounts.
That's strange bulleting there.
I had that file without a bullet.
File for all local user accounts
is not its own bullet point.
Anyways, Crypt still works,
but no administration tools on
Panther will create a Crypt user.
No administration tools
will create a Crypt user.
It is not broken.
It's continued to be supported.
If there are legacy Crypt users,
they will work just as well
as they've always worked.
But no GUI tools that we ship with
Panther will create the users with Crypt.
Your application should not
be relying on Crypt passwords.
Panther will break applications that
require a readable Crypt password.
This is not a bug.
It is a necessary evolution of the
OS for us to close this security hole.
If your application requires a readable
Crypt password to authenticate a user,
you must adopt a password
verification abstraction.
There are three abstractions
that you could adopt to get
off of readable CRP passwords.
You could use PAM, which is a pluggable
authentication module from Linux.
We support it on Mac OS X.
If you adopt PAM,
your application will not care
how passwords are authenticated.
You can call the security framework.
It does a number of services for you.
I attended an excellent
overview by the security team
of the authorization framework.
You could adopt the security framework
to do your password verification,
or you could work with us and adopt
the directory service APIs to do
all of your password verification.
If your application is not
using one of these APIs,
it will break and has already been
broken when running on Panther.
In the CD that we've
distributed to you with Panther,
the default local user created
by the setup assistant does
not have a CRP password.
If you can't authenticate in your
application with that user record,
it's not a bug in the OS.
It's a design decision and a security
hole that we finally patched.
Just in case this isn't clear,
your application is not
using one of these APIs.
It will break when running on Panther.
By the way,
your application's already broken on
Jaguar with a password server-based user,
but most people don't know that,
and most people haven't
tested with network users.
So this is not something new.
We're just tightening the noose a little
bit in order to keep you guys employed.
So what have we done for the
authentication authority matrix?
Well, we had BASIC.
That's Crypt.
We still support that.
If you create a user,
you set the auth authority to BASIC,
you'll get a Crypt password.
We don't recommend it.
It's not secure.
We have the Apple Password Server.
No changes there.
We still support the Password Server.
But we've added a new attribute
that we call ShadowHash.
A user record with an authentication
authority of ShadowHash indicates that
a user record has a password hash stored
in slash var slash db slash shadow.
That file is root-readable only,
not even admin-readable.
It's root-readable only.
To read the hashes out of that database,
you have to have root
privileges on the local machine,
and on Panther,
root is not enabled by default.
So this is as secure as any system
we know about that stores the
passwords locally on a hard drive.
Panther stores all of its passwords
for local users in VARDB Shadow.
It's a secure file system directory.
We use a SHA-1 hash
to store the password.
We have support for more
than eight characters.
So those of you who want eight-character
support and want it to be significant
to more than eight-character support,
we now support that.
The system is no longer subject
to hash download attacks.
So students cannot walk
up to your lab machines,
run in IDump,
and walk off with the password database.
Crypt is still supported, as I've said,
but no administration tools in
Panther will create a crypt-based user.
And all of the Panther command line
tools that we've been able to identify
have been updated to use the directory
service APIs to change passwords.
So you can now use changepw,
changepassword.
All the tools we found
now use the DS API,
so you can change your passwords
through command line or through the GUI.
So that's local authentication.
So authentication in Panther continues
because we haven't been idle on what to
do with network authentication as well.
So there are new features
for the Password Server.
We have new authentication methods
in the Panther Password Server.
We now support secure multi-master
replication for the Password Server.
You can distribute copies of the
Password Server around your network.
And we've upgraded the client so the
client knows about the replicas and will
fail over to use a replica when one of
the replicas is talking to you goes away.
We now have global and per-user policies.
You used to only be able to set
password policies per user record,
which meant if you wanted
to start a global change,
you had to visit each user record.
Well, that was silly.
So we fixed it to have global policies.
And we're integrating support
for Apple's Kerbero Server,
which is really MIT's Kerbero Server,
and I'm going to come back to
that later in the presentation.
It's better performance.
There's far less networking traffic
and an extremely embarrassing faux pas.
It takes 14 packets to authenticate
a user on the Password Server.
How many of you think
that's just idiotic?
It is.
Okay.
We fixed it.
It now takes two packets.
By the way,
if anyone can figure out how to do
authentication in a single packet,
I want to talk to you after the session.
Better performance,
less networking traffic,
and we have many new command line
tools to automate policy management.
There's now a PW Policy tool,
which lets you set all the
policies from the command line.
It's in user/smin on the server.
Give it a try.
It has a man page.
The new authentication methods is we've
added support for VPN authentication.
VPN, a typical authentication
method required is MSCHAP2.
The Password Server now
offers MSCHAP2 support.
And if you attended the
server detail overview,
many of you are familiar now,
we have a PDC.
We had to add several authentication
methods to support hosting a PDC.
So we added a number of auth
methods so that we could host
Windows primary domain controllers.
So Password Server authentication
methods look like this.
We have MD5 Digest.
That's supported on both platforms.
We have CRAM MD5.
We have NT and Land Manager.
We have APOP.
We have WebDAV Digest.
We have MSCHAP2, which is new and only
supported on Panther.
And we are retiring to a random.
Every AFP client,
it's supported in Jaguar.
We're removing it in Panther because
everybody since 8.1 uses Diffie-Hellman.
The DHX exchange.
So two-way random wasn't being used that
much when we profiled all of our user
data and there's some issues with it.
So we're retiring to
a random in 10 server.
There are other enhancements
to the Password Server.
So new password policies.
I went over this.
Global and per-user password policies.
We now allow the policy to be set in one
place so you can change your passwords
from minimum 8 characters to minimum 12
characters by making one single change.
Or you can override for certain users.
There's that user who's calling you a lot
on the phone line and you don't like it.
You can set the password
policy for them to be like 18
characters as a minimum password.
Although I think that might
cause more phone calls.
I'm not quite sure whether
that's a good thing.
We have many new
password policy features.
We have history,
we have character set requirements,
and there's a new tool for
password policy management,
PW Policy.
It's easier to show the new
features than inventory them,
so I'm just going to throw up
this screenshot and let you
all get a good look at it.
So we can disable an
account on a certain date.
We can disable an account
after a certain number of days.
We can disable an account after a
certain number of days of inactivity.
And inactivity in this realm is
defined as successful activity.
So failed attempts don't keep this alive.
They have to have logged on successfully
at least once within that period of time.
And we have the, of course,
after a certain number
of failed attempts.
Passwords must be a certain
number of characters that
contain at least a letter,
contain at least one numeric,
differ from the account name,
differ from the last X passwords used,
and be changed every X minutes, days,
months, or years.
Per-user policies are a subset.
Now, you can override the global
policies on a per-user basis,
so I could go into a particular user,
say I've hired a contractor to come
onto my site and I want to disable it.
When the contractor goes away,
I can set a disabled logon.
You can see all of this
in Workgroup Manager.
Those are some of the
things that we can do.
And that's one of the policies
we're supporting now in Panther.
Secure replication.
Schlepping passwords around the network
in the clear is not a good idea.
So when we designed
replication from day one,
we have leveraged the public key/private
key pair that the password server has.
Note, we use the SSH key gen.
We don't share the SSH key,
but we use the exact same key gen tool
that SSH uses to generate our keys.
So we are basing our replication
on encryption done by using SSH.
We're using the public key/private
key pair that is already present
on every password server that's
already been deployed on Jaguar.
Replication can occur on change
or it can occur periodically,
like every 20 minutes, every half hour.
All replicas can accept change password.
That means if you're cut off from
the mothership for a period of time,
your users can still
reset their passwords.
And when the replication occurs,
we merge the data and we do
all the right things in knowing
who has the later record,
all of that sort of stuff
that you would expect from a
professional server organization.
All replicas can accept change password.
All replication sessions are
encrypted end to end with 128-bit
key using RC5 encryption that we
get from the security framework.
There is no clear text data passed at any
time during password server replication.
I'd like to repeat that.
We never pass the clear text on the wire.
Client replica discovery
is quite exhaustive.
If you have a replicated system
but your clients are still
beating on the same IP address,
it doesn't do you any good.
So we came up with a
multi-layered approach for the
client to discover a replica.
The replica picking is transparent
to anyone using the directory service
APIs or any of the higher-level APIs.
You don't have to know that
a failover is occurring.
Replica discovery is done in parallel.
If you have 20 servers deployed
and 19 of them are down and you
have a two-minute network timeout,
I doubt your user wants to wait 38
minutes to find the 20th replica.
So we discover the replicas in parallel.
The first thing we have is we have a
local cache file on the local machine
that knows the IP address list of all
the replicas for the password servers.
If we find the password server there,
we'll start working
with that IP list first.
Obviously, in the general sense,
we don't have to worry about that.
In the Genesis case,
we don't yet have that replica cache,
so we move on to a configuration
record in the directory server.
So there is a config record in
the LDAP directory server that
is for the password server,
and it lists all the IP addresses
of the password server.
The client downloads that
configuration record and populates
the cache file with that list.
We also use Rendezvous,
which I'm going to come back to
because we have public key private key.
We can actually use Rendezvous
and it's still secure.
And as a last-ditch attempt,
we assume you might be trying
to log on to a server for
which you can use Rendezvous.
You've changed its IP address,
and so we'll loop back to the local
machine to see if a password server is
running locally and authenticate there.
And as a last resort,
we'll actually use the network address
listed in the authentication authority.
If Replica is available,
I think we'll find it.
I want to go back to the
Rendezvous case real quick.
The Password Server registers
Rendezvous using its public key.
We know the Password Server's public key,
so we can actually ask Rendezvous,
is there any Password Server on
the network with this public key?
Now, we don't trust that that Password
Server's actually who it says.
We still engage in the challenge
to have that client prove to
us it knows the private key.
But we were able to leverage
Rendezvous to use a service discovery
protocol so that you can change the
IP address of your Password Server,
and your clients will find
them using Rendezvous.
We thought that's pretty slick.
Thought I might point it out to you
where you have some security fallback.
It's kind of nice to combine Rendezvous,
which is local network
broadcast authentication,
or discovery with a secure
authentication challenge.
It could be used for SSH as well.
I haven't thought about it much.
So integrated Kerbero support.
How many of you haven't
heard that Apple's moving
in a big way toward Kerbero?
OK.
So we are integrating.
Luke.
OK.
Apple will ship an enhanced MIT KDC.
I'm not sure the MIT team
would think it's enhanced.
But no, we're going to enhance it.
The enhancements will allow the
Password Server and the KDC to
share and synchronize their
password and policy information.
Apple's KDC will leverage
Password Server replication,
so all the KDC data will be
funneled through Password
Server replication sessions.
And from a customer's point of view,
the Password Server and the
KDC are a single system,
so they won't know that
they've deployed a KDC.
They hopefully won't care
because--and if they do care,
we can say we're using Kerbero,
and then that should shut them up.
So legacy authentication support is
still provided by the Password Server.
So what we have, in our opinion,
is the best of both worlds.
We're moving toward Kerbero,
but we aren't holding your legacy
non-Kerbero clients hostage.
They can still engage in
legacy authentication.
So this brings us to Apple's
single sign-on strategy,
which is the last section
of my presentation.
Single sign-on.
This is defined as, by my management,
as a user typing a password
into logon window and not having
to worry about it ever again.
Apple is adopting Kerbero as our
network single sign-on approach.
Apple is basing all of our Kerbero
work on the MIT Kerbero implementation.
Panther can be configured to work
with existing Kerbero deployments.
Apple is not changing Kerbero.
We're tweaking the KDC,
but we're not changing Kerberoos.
All we're really doing-- and I didn't
realize this until we were almost
done-- is we're providing configuration
tools to make it easier to adopt.
Kerbero's is excellent,
but in Apple's opinion,
has suffered some barriers to adoption.
And I'd like to go over some of
those barriers so that hopefully
you guys will share with me what
you think we're actually adding,
where we're adding value.
So the first barrier to
adoption is you needed a KDC.
You're required to deploy a KDC,
and up until now,
that's been quite an effort.
And up until Panther,
there was no KDC that ran on Mac OS X.
I think Heimdall ran,
but there was no MIT KDC that
ran on Panther or Jaguar.
Directory services integration.
This is actually fun.
Marshall's going to laugh at this,
but when we met four years
ago at WWDC in San Jose,
what we realized is there were lots
of Kerbero's deployments in the world,
but none of them had standardized how
do you integrate with a directory.
Every site had done
something slightly different.
So that's a barrier to adoption.
How do you integrate
with a directory system?
Lack of integrated user
account management.
I mean,
there's lots of scripts and stuff,
but there's no GUI tool where
I can say create a user,
and it also creates the
Kerbero's principle and does
all the things you need to do.
You had to register all
your hosts and services,
so if I wanted to turn on an AFP server,
I had to remember to create a host
principal in my Kerbero server.
I just couldn't turn the AFP server on,
or mail, or some such.
Command line level configuration
of the Kerbero's clients.
I mean, I can handle that,
but I don't think most
of our customers can.
And there was no support for
legacy network authentication.
If you deployed Kerbero,
there was no way for me to do an
NT and LAN manager authentication
for the Windows 95 client that's
never going to be Kerberized.
So how do I get it onto my
SMB servers if it's been Kerberized?
So we saw these as barriers
to Kerbero's adoption,
and the first thing we did was set
out to address each one of them.
So for Panther Server,
Requiring a KDC?
Well, we got that covered.
Panther's shipping with a
full KDC setup by default.
If you complete the setup assistant
on a Panther server and have
turned on a directory server,
you have deployed a KDC.
End of discussion.
No arguments, no ifs, no ands, no buts.
Directory server integration.
All the directory server
tools in Panther know about
the KDC and use the KDC.
Lack of integrated user
account management.
Worker manager,
when you create a new user,
will create a Kerbero's
principle for that user,
as well as a password server entry.
Registration of all host
and service principles.
If you complete the
Panther Setup Assistant,
how many of you saw the cool
Auto Setup Assistant demo?
If you turn on all the services
that you can turn on from Panther,
if you complete the setup assistant and
there's a Kerbero server on the network,
we will have already preregistered
all the host principles
for you for those services,
even if you haven't turned them on.
Command line level configuration.
Panther Desktop will optionally
auto-configure itself out of Kerbero.
There will be no command line
configuration in Panther of Kerbero.
There can be if you prefer that,
but there will be an option
to have auto-configuration.
No support for legacy
network authentication.
Well, we got that covered with
the Password Server.
Its whole reason for being is
legacy network authentication.
We've integrated it with the KDC,
so you can have the best of both worlds.
You can support 95% of
your network as Kerberized,
and one or two machines that need to
come in through a legacy protocol still
can and still have the same password.
So Kerbero will be fully
supported in Panther.
The Apple single sign-on
changes don't modify Kerbero.
All we've done is provide
some automated tools to assist
the user with configuration.
Panther Server will be
auto-configured to use Kerbero if
Panther Directory services are deployed.
But what about integrating
with non-Apple Kerbero systems?
Well, how many people have deployed
Kerbero at their site?
You guys already know how to do this,
so the way you'll do it for
Panther is the same way you've
always done it for Panther.
You're already comfortable with the KDC.
You know how to create host principles.
There will be no difference
in deploying Panther into an
existing Kerbero deployment.
If you deploy our KDC,
you get the auto-setup features.
If you don't deploy our KDC,
you set it up the way you've always
set up services to use a KDC.
The administrator is
therefore responsible for
the Kerbero's configuration.
So I get this question a lot.
How does Panther actually
auto-configure Kerberos?
Well,
we're using the authentication authority.
We now have defined an
authentication authority in the
user record with the keyword of,
guess what, Kerberos.
If we see an authentication
authority with Kerberos,
logon window will rummage around
in the directory looking for
Kerberos config information and
auto-configure the Kerberos client.
If your directory
contains that information,
your Panther client will
auto-configure to use Kerberos.
If your directory does not
contain that information,
it will do nothing.
Most directories don't contain this
auto-config information because we
haven't told you what it is yet.
So rest assured that Panther will not
be automatically configuring Kerberos
out of your directory system because we
haven't even figured out ourselves yet
what the final format of the data is,
but we will.
Sites can add the auto-configuration
data to legacy deployments if they want.
We'll set it up for you automatically.
So we're leveraging the
existence of the authentication
authority in the user record,
and that will trigger Panther to
look for config information to
configure the client to use Kerbero.
So customers can choose.
Customers can choose to
deploy Apple services,
and Kerbero will be easier than ever.
Many of the barriers to Kerbero
adoption have been addressed in Panther,
or customers can configure Panther to
work with existing Kerbero deployments,
no different than how
they do other platforms.
So it's really up to you as
a network administrator as
to which system you deploy.
But either way,
Panther will support Kerbero.
Authentication long-term.
Apple is investing heavily in Kerberoos.
Where Apple can be an 800-pound gorilla,
we can actually make a lot of changes.
Let me repeat the first statement.
We are investing heavily in Kerberoos.
You should probably be doing the same.
We are aggressively migrating all
of our networking products to be
Kerberoos-based if it's appropriate.
We're going to ship a KDC.
We already ship a client.
And session 108 is a must-attend for
any network services developer so you
can learn how to use the Kerberoos APIs.
All Kerberoes, all the time,
is in Apple's future and yours.
Plan today for the changes
you know are coming.
I'd like to wrap it up at this point.
So, Jaguar introduced new
authentication support.
Panther has changes in
three important areas.
We've changed local authentication
to not be crypt-based.
We've enhanced the open directory
password server to be fully replicated.
There's new auth methods, new policies,
new tools.
And Apple is aggressively
working on making it trivial
for server administrators to
deploy Kerbero on their network.
An interesting history through
the years is we started out with
Mac OS XO and it supported Crypt.
XO we added Crypt, LDAP Bind,
and the DS APIs.
For Mac OS XO we support Crypt, LDAP,
Kerbero, DS API, Password Server, PAM,
and Security Framework.
And for Panther, we've dropped Crypt.
We still have all the other support,
but we've added replication.
And moving out into the future,
Kerberoos is more and more the story.
And we're going to be working with MIT to
define how that evolves and what we do.
There's some roadmap.
The security and architectural overview,
you should really go back in time
and listen to that yesterday.
108 is on Thursday at 9:00 a.m.
That's Kerbero for Mac OS X.
The Mac OS X Server overview is also
an excellent thing for time travel.
That was at 2:00 p.m.
Mac OS X Server in depth preceded this,
so three of the sessions
have already happened.
Directory services is tomorrow.
I will be emphasizing authentication
far less in tomorrow's talk.
We'll be talking more about the
enhancements to LDAP and other things.
Managed desktop technologies is
heavily based on directory services.
I recommend if you're interested in
directory services and authentication,
that's an excellent session.
And network security best
practices is on Friday at 10.30.
If you have any questions,
you can contact me or Skip Levens.
And for more information,
here's a list of documentation
and open source references.
We have the
Directory Service API documentation.
Directory Services is open
source as part of Darwin.
We have the Open Directory SDK.
We have Mac OS X Server documentation.
I particularly recommend the one in the
technical briefs called Open Directory.
That's an excellent tutorial on the
overview of what a directory system is.
We have Mac OS X LDAP schema,
which is stored in the
Open LDAP configuration files,
and we have the Mac OS X security APIs.
There's also some third-party sites.
OpenLDAP is an excellent LDAP server.
Sassl is done by Carnegie Mellon.
We base our Password
Server on the Sassl protocol.
PAM is PAM,
and it's a Linux password abstraction.
And there's Kerbero, of course,
at web.mit.edu/kerbero.
Oh, somebody added this slide.
I haven't seen it.
So who to contact about Kerbero
would be Andreas Windecker.
Is that correct?
Bob Frazier, Catherine Wink,
and enterprise-level web
object support and consulting.
I'm not quite sure that's
appropriate for this session,
but maybe it is.
We have some more reference libraries.
It appears somebody cut and pasted
some slides into my presentation.